This is Katherine McShane interviewing Guy Harper for the Swicker Cardiff Carnival 25th
Anniversary Project. The date is the 12th of November 2014 and we're here in Penilan
in Cardiff and Guy for the recording. Could you spell your name for me please?
G for gorilla, U for an umbrella and Y for yacht. And your second name? John or Harper.
Yeah Harper. Sorry, H-A-R-P-E-R. Lovely. So can you remember how you got involved in
carnival in the first place? Yeah I got dragged along. I was doing some voluntary work for
City Centre Youth Project and some people I'd met there. I think it was a young lady called Karen
and a chap called Steph and a young lady called Jane dragged me along. They said to come along
to this... well I think they'd been before. They said, oh it's carnival's on, you've got to come
along. So I went along and there's lots of dremming and I was quite interested in music anyway.
So they were doing lots of sort of, I don't know, the equivalent of like samba drumming.
I'm not that knowledgeable so I don't know what particular style it was but I just wanted to do
a bit of drumming and there were lots of people drumming in a big space and I thought yeah you
know I like this and then they started making costumes and stuff. So I got involved and then
carried on going for a few consecutive years. Can you remember which period that was?
What do you mean which period? In terms of years. Well as we were saying earlier, I seem to think it would have been
about 92, 93 until for about probably for about five or six years probably but it's going back
a long time and I can't really... I couldn't be definite about that. I think it would have been
about 92, 93 I would have put my head around the door there and then I would have carried on going
probably until about 90s. I'm trying to think. I'm trying to think, did Fred ever go?
Or did I ever go well after Fred was born? I don't know. I can't remember. It would have been...
I would have carried on going until at least 96 I think. Okay and what was it that sort of kept you
being involved and interested? I just like the energy of it. The sort of drumming and then later
I got involved with the stoke walking and it was just... I quite like the atmosphere of the sort of
a lot of people getting together for a bit you know just sort of for a parade you know and
sort of and to make a lot of noise and to dress up and sort of just generally... well just generally sort of
yeah giving a lot of people all together in a nice big space with you know sort of contributing
to a parade. I just like that. I really like that. Can you remember particular costumes that you
created or? I can remember doing the one that when the one year
I remember making a big horn.
That was about it must have been about four foot long.
Right. I kept that on my how I've done now that I didn't break my neck with that I don't know.
And then another year some there was some sort of Egyptian. I can't remember what but I remember
it was Egyptian like ancient Egyptian you know sort of like Pharaoh sort of
sort of Tutankhamun type Egyptian and then there was that karmageddon on you
where we all dressed up as cardboard wrappers with sort of cardboard baseball bats caps and stuff.
All right. Carbons shorts and cardboard vest. Nice. That was on stilts.
And that's I can't remember much else really as to what I was wearing.
Now I can't remember what I can't remember the individual costumes.
Or the themes. Can you remember sort of any of the themes? There was that karmageddon yeah there was
um the themes crumbs you're really taxing my memory
there was yeah the karmageddon year seems to be overpowering my mind that's all
that's the only one I can think of at the moment. That's fine. What was your experience of the
carnival camp? I like the camp. I like the fact there's sort of lots of people getting together
and sort of it when the first couple years I went it was very very laid back it was very laid back
it was sort of it was like a camp people come out and they were there were people coming from all
over sort of different parts of the country and people coming from locally it was quite mellow
and like you said there was people sitting and sewing and and so people just sit there making
their costumes and stuff but as the I don't know as the years went on I think the hype factor sort
of stepped in a bit and it became less there was there were I think there were a lot more egos in
the room as as the years went on and it was it lost that I don't know my first one it was really
I was a bit of a hippie anyway and it had that it was like a camp it was there's people sat around
making their costumes there's music on you'd have an interval somebody come some people get up and
do a bit of drumming or some people get somebody get up and play his instrument or whatever
and then you'd go back really mellow out again and then and it was really easy going really nice
atmosphere really nice pleasant easy going atmosphere but as the years went on more people
it got bigger if you know what I mean more it seemed to get bigger and as it got bigger inevitably
it got a little bit more stressful so it's a it didn't I don't know I don't think it
I don't think it I really I preferred it I quite like it when it was still fairly small because it
was it did have that really it was like a camp it was and which venue was that that was in Cotez
there was because then then there was a there was talk about um that little cafe there
and somebody got the franchise for it or something and
and we'd gone from passing around the sandwiches to to a franchise cafe and it was I don't know it
just it didn't seem yeah you got the feeling that I got the feeling that you know it was
as it picked up more people were getting interested then there was more people who were worrying
it had to be done right you know so it's a which yeah that's nice you know it's a big parade and
there's a lot of people going to turn out to see it you want it to be done right
but at the same time up you lost a little bit of that homegrownness about it it's uh yeah
so can you remember any particular characters from those years or people that you met during
can come to you like kevin and augie and and kora because they did they did they they taught me how
to do taught me how to do the stilt walking i really i really buzzed on that there was that um
that chat that big chat mo there's graham can you remember graham with the drums he still has
i see him on up in trail bridge actually he's moved to he lived in trail bridge i think he's
got something wrong with his leg because he's always got he's always walking with a stick
i know you remember the one the liver peglian one yes scarce one yeah uh marion with the steel
drums uh what was that last his name the one who used to play that zither thing
oh what was his name i can't remember his name
i remember there's a lot of people there's chris from the san baguette who was um
steve steve fletcher obviously uh ali and tom and neg i knew anyway and gareth and bud and
all that crap i i already knew anyway uh so i think what else what else we we knew from from the
uh does lisa still go not not in recent years no no right i died already i knew lisa already
because i got guys
oh my brain hurts what about your most memorable carnival incident can you remember
specific stories or incidents thrown out getting banned
that's charming loyalty would be nice as well
oh
and what did you do to get banned i threw i i one of the stanley knives used for cutting up the
bits of material and i i threw it into a piece of wood and then i got banned
health and safety i presume so yeah do you have any positive carnival memories
well yeah i just said i really enjoyed you know i really enjoyed the drumming and the stoke walking
and the sort of jamboree-ness of it all and i really enjoyed the i really enjoyed the atmosphere
in the first the sort of i quite enjoyed the sort of camp the sort of mellow sort of atmosphere
for a couple of years as well so in terms of the parade experience what do you sort of remember
of the parade days
i'm just getting on with it yeah the performance aspect of it i suppose
yeah well you don't you don't sort of you don't really clock so much of the performance while
you're actually doing it right because you're you've got you're focused on what you're supposed
to be doing so it's a what you're sort of you know what you're doing you can't really see who's
behind you that well and and that sort of thing you i would usually be involved with a drum with
a sort of drummy sort of section so you sort of that that takes up all your attention really your
drums are quite they're quite loud and sort of look at me so you don't you tend not to see
who's behind you tend to catch people what other people do more during the evenings
when you're working towards it if you know i mean you sort of
while they're doing a rehearsal or we'll get out and do this then you you see what's happening but
it's on the actual parade day itself and you you're quite focused on whatever you're doing
which is you would usually be playing the drums in some sort of uh in some sort of capacity i
suppose do you remember much about um the reception the parade got in terms of the crowd
on the kids yeah it all seemed to be very good it always seemed to be very good there was it
it seemed to be a nice mix of people who were just bringing the kids out for the afternoon and
and and people who knew people you know you'd always get somebody shouting somebody's name out
people who knew people and with a nice mix of people who were just out for the you know who
just come out for the for the evening you know sort of read i don't know whether they read it in the
echo or whatever and what was your sort of least enjoyable aspect of being involved in carnival
as i said it got very stressful towards the the last sort of year or so it got i think they would
it got bigger and it did seem to attract a lot of egos it got very
very they didn't it seemed to be about
it seemed to be a lot more about particular individuals than
then the thoughts of a car you know the car on the carnival atmosphere the the sort of
bring your friends and family along bring the kiddies along bring granny along
and live a little love a little that all seemed to it all seemed to be very much about
particularly egos in the room rather than so for you i suppose my next question was
what does carnival mean to you what does a carnival experience mean to you it would be that
it was a it's a community that it was a community a community getting together to be create
creatively to say we're going to sit and enjoy each other's company work towards a goal
see what we can come up with artistically creatively and then at the end of it we're
going to enjoy it so it's a we're going to you know we're going to have a ball you know so it's a
that's that's what it was a that's what it was about i suppose that's why why do you know of
any other deaf and what was it would you know something i don't i know different people pick
out different aspects that is what carnival means to them depending on how they've been involved and
you know for some people it is the performance or yeah yeah i see what you mean yeah yeah
yeah yeah
so what in terms of um the value of cart of carnival it is that
being open access and bringing the community together or
yeah i think so i wasn't i was i never really looked at it yeah i want to get in a high profile
high stress levels a lot of pressure on to be you know tip top i quite like the quality of
in terms of the pressure in terms of the pressure i was quite i quite liked it like
that's what i liked about it initially was that it was you could meet people and it was very
it was very a way to meet people that was very laid back
but you but you're sort of working towards something so it's not it's not like down the pub
oh i'm fed up you give me another lager it was it was sort of you sat there quite
you'd be exactly being constructive and you get so you get to see people talk to people whilst
they're being constructive you see so it's a i quite but but laid back about you know not like
in a job situation where the boss are being by three and it's got to be done you know it is
i quite like that it was laid back you know it was i didn't really
i wasn't really getting it it was a there was a champion of egos there really it was a
it was lost on me to be honest it's i didn't really you know it didn't really occur to me
yeah that there is that level of carnival this is you sort of said all they were like actors or
whatever in a in some sort of you know i i could now you say i can see it but it's a but i didn't
really get it at the time i just thought well you know we're we're sort of malloring out doing our
thing and there's a lot of people being very affecting sorry excuse me excuse my language
there's a lot of people with heavy vibes you know heavy vibes and i didn't really
i didn't really sort of i didn't really take to that but now you say
you know now you put it in that light i can i can i can understand yeah well maybe
so the performance element of it was was was you know sort of was that was their thing you know
but it's a i didn't really i just got they were being a bit
i got they were just adding a they they were just it just seemed to be a lot of stress to what
would otherwise have been quite a quite the sort of quite the pleasant time you see so would you
come back i don't know i it's funny you should ask that because you said when you said would i
would would i do an interview i i thought well yeah why not and then after i'd said that i thought
crikey that's strange it's after all these years especially as i said i got thrown out that time
you see so it's quite the idea of i don't know i wouldn't say i wouldn't but i wouldn't say
i don't know i don't say i don't know my it's my my i've changed a lot since then so i don't
really know how that would exactly i don't know it's like asking somebody out on a date and it
uses a that you haven't seen for years and years you didn't you think well would i really would i
really have anything in common there's no reason why you shouldn't have you might have but but
there's no reason why you should have either you see so it's it's it's a i don't know i wouldn't
say i wouldn't start i wouldn't say it was impossible i wouldn't say no out of the question but i'd
but i'm getting an impression you still have a soft spot for kind of all
well that's why i don't i don't yeah fond memories but i don't that's why i don't know what it would
be like now i could turn up now and it could be everything i hated about it or i could turn up and
it could be everything i liked about it i don't know so well i suppose life's about risks in it
i certainly wouldn't i wouldn't certainly wouldn't say no i'd all certainly not
thank you very much